
# RGB LED Routines for Arduino

The GUI interacts with sample arduino sketches. It is built on Qt and requires version 5.1 or later since it uses QSerialPort. The GUI's goal is to simplify controlling the LEDs so any action or mode change requires only a few clicks instead of having to write up an ASCII packet.

The GUI has a main window which shows 4 pages: Single Color Control, Array Color Control, Multi Color Routines, and Settings. 

## <a name="toc"></a>Table of Contents

* [Main Window](#main-window)
* [Single Colors Page](#single-color)
* [Array Colors Page](#array-colors)
* [Multi Color Page](#multi-color)
* [Settings Page](#settings)
* [Custom UI Elements](#custom-elements)
    * [Color Wheel](#color-wheel)
    * [Lights Slider](#lights-slider)
* [Credits](#credits)


##<a name="main-window"></a>Main Window


The MainWindow contains a QStackedWidget which shows the various
pages of the app, an on/off button in the top left, and a brightness slider across the top. It also 
has four buttons which are used to change the current page of the GUI. 


##<a name="single-color"></a>Single Color Page


The SingleColorPage class allows uses to change
the main color of the LED system, which is used to display
single color routines such as blinking on and off or
displaying a single solid color.


##<a name="array-colors"></a>Array Colors Page


The ArrayColorsPage uses the saved array on the arduino
to set the lights. This array can have all its colors changed individually,
but currently it just allows you to choose how many colors to use from the array.

###<a name="todo-arrays"></a>TODO

* Add the ability to set each color individually through the GUI
* Make the number colors used by the routine slider clearer

##<a name="multi-color"></a>Multi Color Page


The MultiColorPage class contains
preprogrammed lighting routines that use a
a variety of colors. One example is individually
setting each LED a different random color.

##<a name="settings"></a>Settings Page


The SettingsPage class allows you
to change the timeout or speed of the LEDs
It also shows a list of the available serial connections
and clicking  on a serial connection will attempt to connect to it.

##<a name="custom-elements"></a>Custom UI Elements

###<a name="color-wheel"></a>Color Wheel

The ColorWheel class provides a color wheel that shows all hues
within the visual spectrum, and allows the user to click anywhere
in the color wheel and it will send a signal of that specific color.

The ColorWheel's image was generated by a modified version of [this script](https://github.com/jacksongabbard/Python-Color-Gamut-Generator). 
The modifications kept the consistent hue shift based on angle, but
made it so that it uses 3/4 of the radius to generate a mix of
the hue and black, while the remaining 1/4 mixes the hue with white.

###<a name="lights-slider"></a>Lights Slider

The LightsSlider class is mostly a QSlider, but we plan to do
some things out side of the context of just QSlider, so we're subclassing
QWidget instead.
 
QSliders have their tick marks break when theres a
custom style sheet, so tick marks are drawn using QPaint, if needed.

The slider also has some custom logic. Clicking on the slider jumps the value
to the location of your click instead of doing a tick towards it. Also, sliders
can be given a minimum value that they can't go below.

##<a name="credits"></a>Credits

* The style sheet of the project is heavily based on [QDarkStyleSheet](https://github.com/ColinDuquesnoy/QDarkStyleSheet) by Colin Duquesnoy. The major difference between the two is that we do not set the background color as that is handled by QPaintEvents.
* The color wheel's image asset was created by a modified version of the [Python Color Gamut Generator](https://github.com/jacksongabbard/Python-Color-Gamut-Generator) by Jackson Gabbard.
* Code solutions taken from stackoverflow contain links to the original solutions in the source code. 



